Why do security principles matter?
In courtrooms, judges often look for precedence.
Cases with similar characteristics as
their current one that had been adjudicated in the past.
While they make up their own mind based on the facts and the law,
they use those prior cases as reference points and frameworks.
The cybersecurity profession is no different.
Why reinvent the wheel when you can
use other proven sources to build your security program?
Every organization is different, even within industries.
In building your security program,
you will reference many sources.
For this course, we will use three primary categories of sources,
frameworks and best practices,
vendor documentation and regulatory requirements.
First up, frameworks and best practices.
A framework is a set of agreed upon policies,
procedures, and processes that define how information is managed.
There are hundreds of security frameworks.
But for this course, we'll primarily use NIST,
the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
Best practices are very similar in nature.
They are procedures and processes that are
widely accepted within an industry as being effective.
The primary difference is a framework is an official document with controls on how it
is modified and best practices are generally more organically created and maintained.
Next is vendor documentation.
Vendor documentation is a combination of
requirements and suggestions for the specific security configuration of their product.
An example would be Microsoft Server Security Guide.
It contains advice and recommendations on updates,
security settings, identity management, and much more.
Before implementing a new application or a piece of hardware,
be sure you have reviewed all the appropriate documentation.
If your organization is subject to regulatory compliance,
such as FERPA, HIPAA,
or PCI, there will certainly be documentation in the form of requirements,
best practices, and recommendations for your security program.